Run test locally against 4.* Cluster (#3218)
openshift/odo: docs/dev/development.adoc

*Prerequisites:*

* A `minishift` or OpenShift 3.11 environment with Service Catalog enabled:
+
----
$ MINISHIFT_ENABLE_EXPERIMENTAL=y minishift start --extra-clusterup-flags "--enable=*,service-catalog,automation-service-broker,template-service-broker"
----
OR
* A `crc` environment for 4.* local cluster:
+

> For `crc` installation please refer https://github.com/code-ready/crc#documentation

Reviewer: I think making this short will be preferable. Like instead of `For crc installation please refer https://github.com/code-ready/crc#documentation` you can simply use `Install https://github.com/code-ready/crc#documentation[crc]

Author: How the phrase ```Follow link:https://github.com/code-ready/crc#documentation[crc] installation guide.``` is ?

> Follow link:https://github.com/code-ready/crc#documentation[crc] installation guide.

Reviewer: please keep crc like [`crc`]

Author: you can also see the same format that i am using in other places too. So lets not change the format while writing fresh hyperlink

Author: hawk eye :)

+
OR

> * 4.* cluster hosted remotely

Reviewer 2: `a 4.* cluster`

Author: Done

> NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch test on 3.11 and 4.* cluster. To run test 3.11 cluster locally no cluster configuration is needed, however 4.* cluster need to be configure before launching the test against it. Make sure file `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` should be present in auth directory (create it) which resides parallel to Makefile. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```
however a 4.* cluster needs to be configured before launching the test against it. The files `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` should be present in the auth directory and it should reside parallel to the Makefile. If it is not present in the auth directory, please create it. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.
```

Author: Done

> NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch test on 3.11 and 4.* cluster. To run test 3.11 cluster locally no cluster configuration is needed, however 4.* cluster need to be configure before launching the test against it. Make sure file `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` should be present in auth directory (create it) which resides parallel to Makefile. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.

Reviewer: Can you please add some more content towards the line `kubeadmin-password and kubeconfig should be present` like `kubeadmin-password and kubeconfig which contains cluster info should be present`? 

It will explain more about what `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` is ?

Author: Done

> NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch test on 3.11 and 4.* cluster. To run test 3.11 cluster locally no cluster configuration is needed, however 4.* cluster need to be configure before launching the test against it. Make sure file `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` should be present in auth directory (create it) which resides parallel to Makefile. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.

Reviewer: Changing `need to be configure` to `needs to be configured` sounds perfect. no?

Author: Done

> NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch test on 3.11 and 4.* cluster. To run test 3.11 cluster locally no cluster configuration is needed, however a 4.* cluster needs to be configured before launching the test against it. The files `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` which contains cluster login details should be present in the auth directory and it should reside parallel to the `Makefile`. If it is not present in the auth directory, please create it. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```
NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch the tests on 3.11 and 4.* clusters. To run the tests on a 3.11 cluster locally 
```

Reviewer 3: > To run test 3.11 cluster locally no cluster configuration is needed,

I think that this is true only if you are using Minishift or `oc cluster up`.

Author: yes, you are right. So any phrase you want me to update instead. For example
```
No cluster configuration is needed to run test on 3.11 cluster spin up by `Minishift` or `oc cluster up` locally.
```

Author: Updated. @kadel PTAL

> NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch test on 3.11 and 4.* cluster. No cluster configuration is needed to run test on 3.11 cluster spin up by `Minishift` or `oc cluster up` locally, however a 4.* cluster needs to be configured before launching the test against it. The files `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` which contains cluster login details should be present in the auth directory and it should reside parallel to the `Makefile`. If it is not present in the auth directory, please create it. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.

Reviewer 2: tests
/hold

> NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the clone odo directory to launch tests on 3.11 and 4.* clusters. No cluster configuration is needed to run tests on a 3.11 cluster is spun up by `Minishift` or `oc cluster up` locally. However a 4.* cluster needs to be configured before launching the tests against it. The files `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` which contain cluster login details should be present in the auth directory and it should reside parallel to the `Makefile`. If it is not present in the auth directory, please create it. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: Make sure that `odo` and `oc` binaries are in `$PATH`. Use the cloned odo directory to launch tests on 3.11 and 4.* clusters. No cluster configuration is needed to run tests on a 3.11 cluster spun up by `Minishift` or `oc cluster up` locally. However a 4.* cluster needs to be configured before launching the tests against it. The files `kubeadmin-password` and `kubeconfig` which contain cluster login details should be present in the `auth` directory and it should reside in the same directory as `Makefile`. If it is not present in the auth directory, please create it. Then run `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` to configure the 4.* cluster.
```

*Running integration tests:*

> Login to the cluster using cluster credentials for running test on 3.11 cluster. For example `odo login -u <user_name> -p <password> <server_URL>`. However `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` does login for running the test on 4.* cluster. By default, tests are run against the `odo` binary placed in the PATH which is created by command `make`. Integration tests can be run in two (parallel and sequential) ways. To control the parallel run use environment variable `TEST_EXEC_NODES`. For example component test can be run

Reviewer: replacing `test` with `tests` makes more sense. Except `For example component test can be run`

Author: Done

> Login to the cluster using cluster credentials for running tests on 3.11 cluster. For example `odo login -u <user_name> -p <password> <server_URL>`. However `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` does login for running the tests on 4.* cluster. By default, tests are run against the `odo` binary placed in the PATH which is created by command `make`. Integration tests can be run in two (parallel and sequential) ways. To control the parallel run use environment variable `TEST_EXEC_NODES`. For example component test can be run

Reviewer 2: ```
For running tests on a 3.11 cluster, login to the cluster using the required credentials. For example `odo login -u <user_name> -p <password> <server_URL>`. However `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` performs the login operation required to run the tests on a 4.* cluster. By default, tests are run against the `odo` binary placed in the PATH which is created by the command `make`. Integration tests can be run in two (parallel and sequential) ways. To control the parallel run use the environment variable `TEST_EXEC_NODES`. For example the component test can be run
```

> For running tests on a 3.11 cluster, login to the cluster using the required credentials. For example `odo login -u <user_name> -p <password> <server_URL>`. However `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` performs the login operation required to run the tests on a 4.* cluster. By default, tests are run against the `odo` binary placed in the PATH which is created by the command `make`. Integration tests can be run in two (parallel and sequential) ways. To control the parallel run use the environment variable `TEST_EXEC_NODES`. For example the component test can be run

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For running tests on a 3.11 cluster, login to the cluster using the required credentials. For example `odo login -u <user_name> -p <password> <server_URL>`. In case of 4.* cluster, `make configure-installer-tests-cluster` performs the login operation required to run the test. By default, the tests are run against the `odo` binary placed in the $PATH which is created by the command `make`. Integration tests can be run in two ways, parallel and sequential. To control the parallel run, use the environment variable `TEST_EXEC_NODES`. For example, the component test can be run as following:
```
